In addressing our theme, is your best good enough?
I like to start by reading Galatians 6.4.
He says, but let each one examine his own actions, and then he will have cause for rejoicing
in regard to himself alone and not in comparison with the other person.
We're told to examine our own actions.
To ask yourself, how am I doing spiritually?
Am I happy with my attendance at Christian meetings?
Do I participate by sharing meaningful comments as able?
How about my personal study of the Bible?
Let me examine my involvement in the ministry.
Could I do better in preparing for my return visit?
Do I conduct any Bible studies with interested ones?
Are so am I content with what I am doing?
In effect, you're asking yourself, is my best good enough?
We might see others in the congregation that are doing more than we are.
But then we look back at Galatians 6.4 again, and it clearly said that I should not compare
myself with the other person.
So we could quickly assume that we're doing what we can, reasoning that is good enough.
But let's not forget the first part of the verse.
We are to examine our own actions.
We need to compare what we are doing with what we personally could be doing.
We need to be active and not become self-satisfied and overconfident.
First Corinthians 10-12 provides this warning.
So let the one who thinks he is standing beware that he does not fall.
But you may say, I'm doing my best, what more can I do?
Take a good look at your best, scrutinize it.
Examine very closely all you're doing with the time that you have.
Can mundane activity be replaced with theocratic activity?
What do you see?
Is your best good enough?
It may be, it may not.
It depends on one's outlook.
What are some examples?
A runner and a race, he practices, trains, eats the right things, keeps a lean, healthy body,
wears the best running shoes, and so forth.
He gives his best, but loses the race to someone faster.
His best was not good enough.
Why?
It was compared to whether he was faster than his competitors.
Johann Blake lost to Usain the Bolt in a 100-meter event in 2012 by just a fraction of a second.
He did his best, but his best wasn't good enough.
A mother and daughter.
The daughter is in the second grade of school.
She brings home a picture, she drew in class.
The teacher had put a B minus on the picture.
The daughter shows it to her mother, and the mother crosses out the B minus and puts an A plus on it.
She then tapes the picture on the refrigerator.
What is the difference between the teacher and the mother?
The teacher compares the student to other classmates of her age.
The mother grades her according to her best, not in comparison with others.
Jehovah does not compare your best with the best of others.
Let's look at Psalm 103, 14.
When Jehovah examines our spiritual accomplishments, what's one of his measuring sticks?
Psalm 103, 14.
For he well knows how we are formed, remembering that we are dust.
Dust is used figuratively, indicating the mankind's frailty and aloliness.
Remembering that we are dust, Jehovah never asks more of us than we can give.
However, he expects us to obey his commands to the best of our own ability.
Mark 12, 30.
You can likely quote it from memory, verse 30 says,
You must love Jehovah your God with your whole heart and with your whole soul and with your whole mind and with your whole strength.
This embraces everything we have, all that we are.
You go in service.
You use your whole strength to accomplish it.
That's commendable.
But what good is it to use our whole strength, going into service, if our mind cannot direct our tongue to say the right things when we talk to a person?
I used a lot of my strength walking from door to door, climbing stairs and so forth.
And yet no one let me get past my introduction.
Question was that the best introduction you could get?
How long have you been using that introduction?
Would a new one help?
Would using your whole mind by means of advanced preparation result in making your best even better?
Have you tried to use some of the introductions demonstrated at our midweek meetings?
Or some of those found in the reasoning from the Scriptures book, pages 9 through 15?
What does the householder see in your face when she opens the door?
Is your countenance radiating pleasantness and kindness?
Does she see good news or bad news?
Do you look happy or sad?
The message we're commissioned to deliver today is the good news of the Kingdom.
We expect it to change sometime in the near future.
Do the best you can until you know better.
Then when you know better, you can do better.
You attend all congregation meetings and pay rapt attention with your mind.
You're to be commended.
But is that all that's required to love Jehovah with our whole mind?
Are we meditating on the knowledge that we receive at our meetings in order to draw close to Jehovah?
James 4.8 says, draw close to God and He will draw close to you.
That's one benefit we receive from our meeting attendants.
Let's read Hebrews 1024 and 25.
This is another benefit of regular meeting attendants.
In this way, we give and receive in encouragement.
Verse 24 and 25 read, and let us consider one another
so as to incite to love and fine works.
Not for seeking our meeting together as some have the custom,
but encouraging one another and all the more so as you see the day drawing near.
Do you give comments of meetings? Are they well prepared?
Do they encourage your brothers and sisters?
Are you giving your best? If so, then your best is good enough.
What about your personal study or family worship?
Are you doing your best? Is your best good enough?
I read all the watchtowers and the legs when they come out, you say.
It goes without saying that that's good.
What did you find in what you read that will deepen your love
and appreciation for Jehovah and draw you closer to Him?
Do you use your whole mind to meditate and continue to think about it?
Thus spiking it down deep into your heart.
Some things we learn may not be immediately applicable,
but can be regurgitated and applied later as needed.
Are you giving serious attention to the spiritual needs of your wife
and children? Yes, you have a family worship most weeks.
That's commendable. Do you prepare well for it or just throw something together
at the last minute? What if your wife just threw something on the table
for dinner each evening without giving any thought
to the health needs of the family? Thank you.
Is your best good enough? We can slap a pig and he'll enjoy it,
but give the same garbage to a cow and she'll ignore it.
Why are we considering is your best good enough?
It's only as a reminder to look at what we think to be our best
in what we're doing for ourselves, our families,
and our spiritual brothers and sisters. And remember,
our best is not compare with the best of another brother or sister.
Only Jehovah knows when we're doing our best. He is a righteous and fair judge.
Our knowledge, even of ourself, can be faulty due to inherited sin.
Therefore, it's wisdom on our part to keep examining ourselves
to see where we might improve. So is your best good enough?
I'd like to think it is. What do you think?